Welcome back everyone.
In the last few lessons we watched Andre explain to us all of the key things required in order for our
application to be considered a progressive web app.
Now luckily for us our application is built with create react app.
And as Andre explained it's incredibly easy because create react app has pretty much given us all of
the tools required in order to adhere to those principles that make an application.
AP W8 now in order for us to actually do this there's a couple things we have to first tweak about our
application a little bit beyond what Andre explained the reason for this is because we're also running
an express server but we'll get to that.
The first thing that we do need to do inside of our index J.S. is bring back that service worker.
What we're going to do is we're just going to say import and then we'll use that wildcard the star symbol
to say everything I want to import everything as the content service worker from the service worker
or file.
So now that we have a service worker code we're just going to say service worker.
Register at the bottom which will register the service worker inside of our application and that completely
verifies the service worker requirement for P.W. A.
The other thing to remember though is that because we're using an express server when ever a application
tries to load the service worker it's going to be looking for a service worker dock J.S. file.
So what we have to do in our server is that when ever and the app makes a GET request for service worker
dock J.S. we will give them that service worker file.
So inside of our server Jess we're going to do one thing.
We're going to add inside of here a new app get call and we're gonna say if they're ever requesting
service worker dot J.S. then with the request and the response as the function we are going to say that
with the response we're gonna send the file path resolve our directory name
combined with this dot dot meaning that we want to go up one because we were inside of our client we
want to go to our build folder and then we want to pass it.
The service worker dodgy far so that's all we're trying to do.
We're just saying whenever an application requests our application to provide something from this route
we're just going to go into our build folder get the servers work or just file and that's what we'll
render and return.
So that's all we need in order to add our service work into our application.
The next thing that we have to do is we have to ensure that our applications manifest is up to date
with the icons that are required.
We also can change some of the names here because our application is going to actually render this name
or the short name in a mobile browser when we try and open it after we've downloaded it into our mobile
device as a progressive web application.
So how we'll do that is we can just name this whatever we want.
I'm going to call this one crown clothing
with a capital C and the long name.
Maybe I'll say something like Crown clothing by equal so luckily for us create react that generates
us this five icon and it gives us the size that we need.
And if you remember I did give you a favor Conda Iko.
This fab Akon is good enough to replace all of these image sizes inside of our manifest.
So this one is fine.
The only other thing we need to add is two more P and Gs that are the sizes for the Android splash as
well as a one ninety two by one ninety two version that Android also needs.
So what we can do is just import them in from the resources folder because I will provide both of those
for you.
So simply just drag them into your public folder and what we'll do is create two new objects inside
of our icons array.
The first one is going to just point to the source exactly like the same format we see with our fan
icon Iko above there was a crown 512 times 512 PSG which is the name of this file for sizes.
We'll just say 512 by 512
and for type we just gotta say it is image slash PSG.
You can actually copy this text paste it in here and just change the instances of 512 to one ninety
to and that's all we need for our manifest.
We have the names and we updated the icons.
The last thing we have to do is HTC CPS as you remember we're hosting on Heroku and Heroku by default
does give us HD.
The only thing to note is that we do need to redirect any H TTP request over to HECS meaning that if
anybody requests our application using HDTV we should automatically redirect them over to TTP.
Typically when you have a server you do do this on the hosting server.
Now Heroku does not have this option for us.
They have us do it inside of the application but they do provide us with some links about what the best
libraries to use are.
I'm going to provide you with the one that I think is best.
The one that I like to use is called Express s s Alpha Phi.
So that's what we're going to do.
So in order to add it into our application what we're going to do is we are just going to install that.
And so I'm going to use yarn and if you're using NPM of course just use NPM but I'll say yarn at Express
Dash.
S S L I F Y SS Alpha once this is finished installing.
We're just going to go back into our server jazz and add this new line.
So first what we're going to bring in is in force which is what we're going to call what we get back
from Express SS Alpha in order for us to use it.
We just simply call use where we do all of our use statements.
So down here we can just say app don't use enforce that HDTV us and then we're also going to pass it
this object that says trust proto header goes to true.
The reason we need to do this is because with Heroku Heroku runs what's called a reverse proxy.
Now a reverse proxy is something that allows us to forward unencrypted H TTP traffic to the Web site.
So this is really difficult because inside of Heroku it's going to hide away the headers that originally
would tell our application whether or not it's coming from an HTC P request.
But luckily for us there is this proto header property that they append on it as well.
So as you can actually read right here I'm actually realising that what I explained was inside of this
block of text here.
It's just something we've got to do with Heroku.
So with that we're now able to enforce our HDTV.
Yes.
So these are all the changes we need so what we're going to do is just simply get at everything in get
commit updating our code to be P.W. a compliant we'll say added service worker HD CPS as well as updated
manifest
and then we're just gonna run get push Heroku master and in case your application is out of sync with
any of the get repos that you've got so far with your Heroku because maybe you closed down my project
or something you can just force your existing Heroku application to switch over
OK.
Now that we finished building let's actually see our application so we're just gonna run Heroku open
now your application may take a little longer because the dynamite need to be spun up but mine is already
alive.
So what we're going to do now is we are going to run an audit to make sure that our application is progressively
compliant so did check this.
Just go to your audits tab if you're in Chrome because by default lighthouse is actually brought into
it and here you're going to select the desktop.
Let's actually pop this out just because we want to look at everything so we want to choose desktop.
We want to audit performance progressive web app and best practices accessibility and SEO is not important
because that's not the focus of this course we're gonna set no throttling and clear storage is perfectly
fine.
So we're just going to run the audit itself.
And this might take a couple of seconds
and there we go.
We got our scores so we'll see that we have a 100 per performance.
We have ninety three four best practices and we are progressive web app compliant.
So if we scroll down here we see that we have gotten a checkmark for every single one of our sections
and we're now P.W. a optimize.
You can actually check this application inside of your phone now.
Unfortunately since the making of this course that adds a home page button is longer available inside
of your chrome browser on your desktop.
But if you have a mobile device simply go to the link that is your Heroku app or you can go to mine
and you will get a little tab at the bottom that asks you to add it to your home page if you click that
you'll add our application using our fab Akon to your home page and you can open it and browse it like
you would a native application which is what's really really cool.
So that's one great thing about create react app and the way that we've set up our project is that we're
able to get progressive web application level compliant C so quickly and so easily hopefully you enjoyed
this section on converting our application over to a P.W. a.
Check it out on your mobile device because it's really cool to see for the first time with that.
That ends our section on progressive web apps.
And I'll see you in the next lesson.